
OpenStudio
Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Alliance for Sustainable Energy
All Rights Reserved.

                                   NOTICE

This computer software (Software) is code in development prepared by the 
Alliance for Sustainable Energy, (hereinafter the "Contractor"), under 
Contract DE-AC36-08GO28308 (Contract) with the Department of Energy (DOE).  
The United States Government has been granted for itself and others acting 
on its behalf a paid-up, non-exclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license in 
the Software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly 
and display publicly.  Beginning five (5) years after the date permission 
to assert copyright is obtained from the DOE, and subject to any 
subsequent five (5) year renewals, the United States Government is granted 
for itself and others acting on its behalf a paid-up, non-exclusive, 
irrevocable, worldwide license in the Software to reproduce, prepare 
derivative works, distribute copies to the public, perform publicly and 
display publicly, and to permit others to do so.  If the Contractor ceases 
to make this computer software available, it may be obtained from DOE's 
Office of Scientific and Technical Information's Energy Science and 
Technology Software Center (ESTSC) at P.O. Box 1020, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-
1020.


                                 DISCLAIMER

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE CONTRACTOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN 
NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRACTOR OR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, 
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO CLAIMS ASSOCIATED WITH THE LOSS OF DATA OR 
PROFITS, WHICH MAY RESULT FROM AN ACTION IN CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER 
TORTIOUS CLAIM THAT ARISES OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE ACCESS, USE OR 
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

YOU AGREE TO INDEMNIFY DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE, AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES, 
AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES AGAINST ANY CLAIM OR DEMAND, 
INCLUDING REASONABLE ATTORNEYS' FEES, RELATED TO YOUR USE OF THESE DATA.

DOE/NREL/Alliance is not obligated to provide the user with any support, 
consulting, training or assistance of any kind with regard to the use of 
these Data or to provide the user with any updates, revisions or new 
versions of these Data.

The names DOE/NREL/Alliance may not be used in any advertising or 
publicity to endorse or promote any products or commercial entities unless 
specific written permission is obtained from DOE/NREL/Alliance.


                            OPEN SOURCE LICENSE

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free 
Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but 
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY 
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License 
for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along 
with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.


                       OTHER CREDITS AND ATTRIBUTION

The following third-party software is included in the Software and 
additional terms may apply for use of the third-party software:



wxRuby2
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 wxRuby Development Team

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), 
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in 
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL 
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER 
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.



wxWidgets (wxWindows)
Copyright (c) 1998-2005 Julian Smart, Robert Roebling et al

wxWindows Library License, Version 3.1

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this 
licence document, but changing it is not allowed.

                         WXWINDOWS LIBRARY LICENCE
      TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public Licence as published by 
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the Licence, or (at your 
option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but 
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY 
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library General Public 
Licence for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public Licence 
along with this software, usually in a file named COPYING.LIB.  If not, 
write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, 
Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA.

EXCEPTION NOTICE

1. As a special exception, the copyright holders of this library give 
permission for additional uses of the text contained in this release of 
the library as licenced under the wxWindows Library Licence, applying 
either version 3.1 of the Licence, or (at your option) any later version 
of the Licence as published by the copyright holders of version 3.1 of the 
Licence document.

2. The exception is that you may use, copy, link, modify and distribute 
under your own terms, binary object code versions of works based on the 
Library.

3. If you copy code from files distributed under the terms of the GNU 
General Public Licence or the GNU Library General Public Licence into a 
copy of this library, as this licence permits, the exception does not 
apply to the code that you add in this way.  To avoid misleading anyone as 
to the status of such modified files, you must delete this exception 
notice from such code and/or adjust the licensing conditions notice 
accordingly.

4. If you write modifications of your own for this library, it is your 
choice whether to permit this exception to apply to your modifications.  
If you do not wish that, you must delete the exception notice from such 
code and/or adjust the licensing conditions notice accordingly.

